[Music]
check it out 12 facts that will change
your perception of time forever
many things seem to have existed forever
and certain well-known people are
associated with a specific period of
time but have you ever really sat down
and considered the relationship between
different events in correlation with
each other you'd be surprised at how
your perception of time really fools you
by the way we've hidden three tiny light
bulbs in this video can you find them
all if you're the first one to find them
and write the time they appear in the
comments you'll get a mention from us in
one of our next videos good luck and
let's begin counting down from number 12
when the first Star Wars was released
the guillotine was still being used in
France whoa unbelievable well let's
break it down together the first Star
Wars movie was released on May 25th 1977
the last execution by guillotine was
carried out in Marseilles France on
September 10th 1977 and this exact one
was actually the last death penalty
issued in Western Europe after that
France officially abolished the use of
the guillotine along with a death
penalty in 1981 so from now on are you
going to associate the guillotine only
with school textbook pictures of the
18th century French Revolution hey let's
all keep our heads shall we number 11
people born at the same moment can
celebrate their birthdays on different
days can you guess why this is possible
if you said time zones then you'd be
correct they can be pretty tricky and
confusing sometimes for example it's
still morning in the US but already the
next day in Australia
anyone who has flown westward over long
distances especially gets what we're
saying you're travelling for hours and
hours but according to local time you
arrive to your destination earlier than
when you left oh it's so confusing
another interesting fact about time
zones has to do with Islands time zones
they're often have weird shapes so that
certain territories lie in one and the
same time zone and here's another
example of an island split right in half
the tiny island of Market I ain't kiddin
when I say tiny this thing is 984 feet
by 262 feet at its furthest points the
island belongs to two countries Sweden
and Finland the Finnish side keeps to
finish time and the Swedish to its own
time well how convenient would that be a
couple minute walk and voila
one additional hour to compensate for
the fact that you overslept this morning
number 10 Martin Luther King jr. and
Frank and Christopher Plummer were all
born in the same year I just kind of
bend your mind there doesn't it doesn't
it feel like Martin Luther King jr. and
Anne Frank were from completely
different time periods and of course
they couldn't have been alive at the
same time as any of today's Hollywood
actors right well the facts speak for
themselves the famous American preacher
in 1960 civil rights leader was born in
the same year as the brave little Jewish
teenager who journaled her horrendous
experience in hiding during Hitler's
Nazi regime
in the 1940s Holocaust that came with it
they were both born in 1929 along with
the award-winning Canadian actor
Christopher Plummer hmm now I just want
to sing Edelweiss don't you number 9
cleopatra live closer to the founding of
mcdonalds than to the building of the
great pyramids Wow can't you see it for
a limited time at McDonalds the big Cleo
you know everyone thinks of Cleopatra
and the Egyptian pyramids as symbols of
the same time period again not true by
the time Cleopatra was born in 69 BC the
Great Pyramid of Giza had already been
around for two thousand four hundred
seventy-one years but what will really
blow your mind
is the fact that there's less time
between the birth of Cleopatra and the
opening of the first McDonald's
restaurant just 2024 years and do you
want fries with that number eight some
of the whales that live when Moby Dick
was written are still alive today forget
this Herman Melville wrote Moby Dick in
1851 in his book the author described a
gigantic white whale infamous for its
huge size and destruction it caused two
ships and while such whales have a
lifespan of about 50 to 60 years the
bowhead whale can live for as long as
200 years and more so some of the whales
that were swimming in the depths of the
ocean at the time of Moby Dick could
still be hanging around today and
remember all's well that ends well
number 7 a plane from New Zealand
travelled in time
yes we've finally done it time-travel
sci-fi fans of the world unite
no K maybe I'm exaggerating just a
little bit what happened was a Hawaiian
plane took off from Auckland at 12:05
a.m. on January 1st 2018 the passengers
on the plane were happy to celebrate a
new year a second time because the plane
landed in Honolulu at 10:16 a.m. local
time on December 31st 2017 I mean
technically it is time travel right
number six the grandchildren of US
President John Tyler who was born in the
18th century are still alive hard to
believe but it's completely true John
Tyler was born in 1790 that's over 200
years ago yet two of his grandchildren
Leon Gardner Tyler jr. and harrison raff
and Tyler are still alive yes
grandchildren not great grandchildren or
great great grandchildren the thing is
at the age of 63 John Tyler had a son
lion Gardner Tyler who himself became a
father to lion Gardner Tyler jr. at the
age of 71 now granted this isn't really
a normal occurrence it was just made
possible by the fact that the men in
this family are very well you know
active even into old age number five
Warner Brothers Studios appeared when
the Ottoman Empire still existed in 1903
the Warner Brothers opened their first
movie theater called the cascade their
parents were originally from the Russian
Empire and out of 12 children in the
family it was actually just Harry
Albert Sam and Jack that started the
famous company by the time the first
world war broke out in 1914 they had
already been producing movies by the
year 1918 they had opened Warner
Brothers Studio as for the Ottoman
Empire it appeared in 1299 it was one of
the greatest empires on the shores of
the Mediterranean Sea and in its golden
years it stretched from the Caucasus in
the north to Egypt in the south and from
the Persian Gulf in the East to Hungary
in the West the Empire had existed until
1923 when the Turkish Republic was
formed
number four throughout the life of queen
elizabeth ii there have been 16
different US presidents elizabeth ii was
born in 1926 when Calvin Coolidge was
president of the US since then there
have been 15 successors I wonder how
much more she'll live through number
three Tiffany and company jewelry
company is older than Italy the Italy we
know today aka the Italian Republic was
established in 1861 and Charles Lewis
Tiffany and John young opened their
first store on Broadway in 1837 but you
probably wouldn't have recognized the
company in its early years at first the
store specialized in stationery and
fancy goods and went by the name Tiffany
young and Alice it wasn't until 1853 did
the founders change the name to Tiffany
& Company and started emphasizing
jewelry now here's another little
historical tidbit have you ever wondered
why the company chose that particular
shade of blue to be its brand color
Empress Eugenie de Matteo the wife of
Napoleon the third inspired Charles
Tiffany the Empress was a fashion icon
in the 19th century and after the
businessman had seen her portrait in a
beautiful blue gown he immediately knew
that the color would be extremely
popular so he made this the color of
Tiffany's brand
[Music]
number two if you could fit the entire
history of earth into one year humans
would appear at 11:35 p.m. on December
31st let's imagine the Earth's 4.5 four
billion year history is squished into
one calendar year if you crunch the
numbers you'll see that one second would
equal 144 years are you ready to begin
our journey through time let's do it in
January in February you're better off
staying inside constant harsh winds and
rains can destroy even massive mountains
in a second at the end of February
however single celled life is making its
appearance near underwater thermal vents
and in coastal waters in June 60% of the
Earth's surface is still underwater
multi-celled organisms start popping up
around July 17th but there's still
prestigious creatures living in the
oceans of the world no offense mr. krabs
in October you can witness the
Continental Divide but there still
aren't many plants early November brings
the first springs of plant life and
starting on the 18th there's an
explosion of complex life in just a few
days the oceans become crowded with fish
creatures dub amphibians climb out of
the water to spend some time on shore
December starts out with flying insects
that help spread plant life across the
land
dinosaurs show up on the 13th but their
time on earth is short lived an enormous
asteroid smashes into the Yucatan and
the force of the collision releases a
heat pulse that spreads fire all around
the planet
this fire roasts are giant reptilian
friends so the dinosaurs become extinct
by the 26th of the same month a
the next day earth completely recovers
spreading grass throughout the land on
the 27th this herbal food source gives
rise to mammals and primates on the 28th
and finally the first humans start
walking around on the 31st of December
at 11:35 p.m. and there you go amazing
stuff right number one we are now closer
to 2033 than the year 2000 when you hear
10 years ago
you still think of the 90s not the 2000s
don't you isn't it crazy how so many
people are guilty of this well here's a
friendly reminder it's been 18 years
since the Year 2028 since 1990 but we
have just 15 years until the year 2033
so where the heck are those flying cars
and teleportation devices we're all
promised I'm still waiting hey which of
these facts has opened your eyes to the
true character of time let us know in
the comments and did you manage to find
all the lightbulbs hey that was easy
right then share this video with your
friends and remember to give us a lot
all we stay on the bright side of life